The Cow
Ali Nasirian
Jafar Vali
Jamshid Mashayekhi
Ismat Safavi, Mahin Shahabi
Screenplay:
Gholam-Hossein Saedi, Darius Mehrjui
Music:
Hormoz Farhat
Director:
Darius Mehrjui
Catch him, don't let him get away.
Hit him, hit him!
What's going on, why are you doing that?
Get out of here.
- Why are you hurting him, huh?
- We didn't do anything to him.
Oh no?
Why did you through him in the water?
Who will take care of him
if something happens?
It's all Saffar's son's fault, he's
always playing with kids half himself.
It's my fault? Ok then,
Guys...lets show him
- Hello chief.
- Hello.
I wonder, chief
This son of Saffar has been a trouble
ever since he came back from city.
He has learned these well.
Are you going to buy milk?
Hasan's pasturing his cow
And one cow is all we have
in this village.
- Hi Hassan.
- Get out of the way, hi.
Come and sit have a tea with
us, Come give it a break.
Keep away, Come hold this kid.
Go away, don't stand here,
Keep away from her.
Go on, Get out of here.
- Here you are.
- Thank you chief.
Where have you been?
This poor man has been
waiting for a little milk.
I took her gazing.
- Don't give her that, she will be sick
- Get away kid.
What is it Hasan?
You are so touchy today.
The damn bolouries are here again.
What? Bolouri? Where?
- For god's sake, keep away!
- I told you to get away.
I saw them on top of the hill
on my way back.
How many were there?
Those three...as always.
See? Chief, I keep telling you we should
do something about it, but nobody listens.
- Now what do we do?
- There is nothing we can do.
These bolouries don't believe in anything.
We have to leave it to god.
They'll get worse if
we don't do anything.
They have taken three of my sheeps.
They ruined me and no
one did anything about it.
And now Hassan's cow is next I suppose.
Huh?... My turn?
No... God forbid.
Let me tell you this. My blood
boils when I hear their name.
I'll take my revenge no matter what.
-  What can you do?
-  I'll do something.
Right! You're scared of them like hell.
What in the world can you do to?
The boy has no manners.
Hassan, don't take your cow out.
You don’t need her to gaze all day long.
He's right.
Why do you take the pregnant cow out?
Leave her in the cowshed.
It's almost time for her.
Where to? Stay a little.
I have to take her to the cowshed.
I want to sleep early.
I must take off to work early in the morning.
- Bye.
Woman! Give me that lamp.
- Hi.
Let's make sure there
is nothing to harm her.
Give it.
-I'll sleep in the cowshed tonight.
-why what's the matter?
Blories are hanging around.
Give me the lamp.
My life... my dear.
- Is it Bolour's?
- Yes.
- Did you steal it?
Oh God.
Why did this happen to me? Oh God.
What is it? What's wrong?
Move aside, move aside.
Get out of there.
Run Esmayil
Breath, Breath.
- Breath!
- Give her some water.
Shake her arms...
God help her.
Eat, Eat,
In the name of God.
Eslam?  Eslam?
- Is something wrong?
- Mind your own business.
Why did this happen to me?
It's terrible...I'm ruined.
- What is it?
- Tell us what happened, say something!
Hasan's cow died.
I took her some water and found her lying
on the ground, with blood everywhere.
But why? She wasn't ill, was she?
No, she was fine this morning.
She was eating nonstop.
It must be the evil eye!
What evil eye?
She says blood came from her mouth.
There you have it!
God save us all from evil eye.
Eslam? Eslam? Is there something wrong?
Leave me be for god's sake.
What am I to do now? Tell me what to do.
Nothing. What could you do?
She's dead, and she'll never be back!
What should we do now, Eslam?
Poor Hasan, poor Hasan...
Maybe it was a snake.
Believe it or not, I
say Bolouries did this!
- How could the bolouries have done it?
- It's clear they did this.
Any person or animal dies
it’s their fault?
Yes those heathen's steal
what ever they can, and kill the rest.
What good does arguing do us?
Let’s be calm
and think of what we can do.
See? chief, What am I to do now?
Can you imagine how Hasan
would react to finding his cow is dead?
She's right, she's right...
I know how he'd feel when he finds out.
What should we do chief?
I can’t come up with anything.
Listen!
When Hasan comes back
nobody tells him his cow is dead, ok?
Don't tell him, but when he doesn’t
find his cow, He'll figure it out.
Won’t he chief?
He's right, Eslam, When he doesn't
find the cow he'll figure it out
Listen, nobody tells him that his cow
is dead, His wife tells him that the cow....
...That the cow is dead.
- Would you let him finish?
- I'm not stopping him!
His wife will tell him
that the cow ran away.
Hassan won't believe that.
He knows his cow would never ran away.
He's right, Eslam.
A pregnant cow would never run away.
You want to tell him his cow
is dead? That would kill him!
His wife will tell him that his cow
ran away and Esmayil went after her!
But Eslam, I'm here.
I haven't gone anywhere.
We'll just suppose you've gone
after the cow, Let’s just suppose.
Thank god, It's solved
Tell me, Eslam.
What are we to do with the cow, now?
We must hide her somewhere,
So Hassan doesn't find her.
How about skinning the cow
before hiding it?
No, We won’t do that.
First of all it's a sin
to use the skin of a dead animal
Secondly, What if Hassan
shows up and finds out?
How about using Eslam's cart
and dumping it in the valley?
No people would hear and
Hassan would hear of it sooner or later
Then what can we do?
I really don't know
May god help us.
It's such a tragedy
Turn her around
Now...Everyone be careful
not tell Hassan about this.
Hopefully no one would say anything
Even if nobody tells anything, He will.
Hey boy.
I'm talking, Listen carefully.
Don't you tell Hassan anything!
Come here, come!
Move it!
Don't Hassan his cow is dead, got it?
Right.
He won't tell anything.
He's not that stupid.
Wait a second! You'll tell Hassan
that his cow is dead, wont you?
Yes.
There is an easy solution to this.
We'll tie him in the old mill
until it colls down.
Yes that's right.
- Esmayil?
- Yes.
You'd better go hide
so that Hassan doesn’t see you.
- Well...I'll just stay home.
- No, it's better if you come to our place.
He's right, go to Abbas's place!
Dear god and savior,
help us...save us from this evil!
Sit down
Let’s go
- Hassani? Hassani?
- What?
- My brother is going to Bolour.
- So?
- It’d be good if you go along.
- Why?
Well, you know the way better
than he does.
- Why does he want to go to Bolour?
- He says he wants to get even.
If you go with him you can sleep over
at our place when you come back.
He won't let me spend the night.
He wouldn't know, he's a heavy sleeper.
I'd call you once he's asleep.
Why are you sitting there Abbas?
Eslam told me to stay watch
till Hassan shows up.
It's late, he won't come this late.
Where are you two going?
Is this all you got?
Yes.
What about the sheep, then?
I thought you had gone after the sheep.
As hard as we looked
we couldn't find them.
You and your stealing.
He's near!
Hasan is coming! Hassan is coming!
Eslam, Hassan is coming!
- He's coming?
- Yes.
Don't stand here!
Get to your work everyone.
Go away, go!
Hello!
Hassan? Hassan?
Go home, your wife has news for you.
- Hello.
- Hi.
Nice to see you here.
I came to see how Ms. Nasrin is doing.
That's so kind of you.
Did you give her water?
I asked if you gave the cow water!?
For god's sake, one day away from home
is enough for the cow to die of thirst.
Well, Hassan, how is everything?
Eslam...
Come here.
- Is something going on?
- What do you mean?
Everybody is avoiding me!
No, there's nothing wrong,
Don’t worry!
What is it Hassan?
It’s an amulet I bought for her,
to hang around her neck.
- Hang around whose neck?
- The cow, of course, see like this.
Hassan, hey Hassan, Listen to me!
Hassan? Listen, didn't your wife tell you?
Didn’t say what?
- That Esmayil went after her.
- After whom?
- After the cow, didn't she tell you?
- The cow? What cow?
She ran away.
Who?...Who ran away?
Your cow, your cow ran away!
Don't worry, it's nothing, she must be around.
Esmayil will find her and bring her back.
Hassan...
Hassan? Hassan?
Come, listen to me...Hassan.
Hassan? Esmayil is after her.
He'll find her.
Hassan? Esmayil is after her
he'll find her.
It's nothing to worry about, Hassan.
My cow didn't run away, Eslam!
My cow wouldn't run away!
What a crazy situation
Every time I hear a sound
I think it might be Hassan.
He's home, he's not feeling well.
- Have they told him his cow is dead?
- Yes, he thinks it's still in the cowshed.
- That the cow is in cowshed?
- Yes.
I'd better go, then.
They told him
you were gone after the cow.
So...what am I supposed to do?
Nothing...just stay here.
- He's broken loose.
- Leave him alone, let him be.
- Hello ma'am.
- Hi.
- We're here to see Hassan.
- Quiet.
What's going on?
He's up on the roof.
What's he doing up there?
He says my cow don't run away
she's right here.
What should we do, Eslam?
Yes, Eslam, what can we do?
We should try to talk to him.
- Hello Hassan.
- Hello.
Eslam, why did you do that?
Why?
Chief, you ask him.
What did I ever do to him?
Why did he lie to me?
The truth is...I...
Hassan, Eslam never lied to you.
It's true, you cow did run away.
My cow wouldn't run away.
If she were to run away,
where could she go?
Your cow ran away, Hassan.
Hassan, you went to the cowshed
and looked for yourself this morning.
I didn't lie to you.
My cow is right here, in the cowshed.
If she's right here
why don't you go to her?
Yes, just go to the cowshed then.
- Go on!
- Yes go on!
I'm here watching.
Watching what?
The Bolouries want to come
and steal my cow tonight.
How do you know?
If Bolouries want to steal your cow,
Why are you sitting here? go stay near her.
No, the moon will be out any time now.
There it is.
It's rising over Bolour.
Hassan you are sitting here,
what if she gets thirsty.
I'll take her water, when the moon is out.
What if the moon doesn't come out?
The moon will come out
when my cow is thirsty.
Eslam, is there something wrong?
- Eslam, what's this noise?
- I don't know.
- What's going on?
- It was a Bolouri.
I saw them with my own eyes.
They went this way. There were two of them.
Let’s go, let’s go back.
We have to do something about it.
- Hello chief.
- Hello ma'am.
- How's Hassan?
- He is not well chief.
After I fell asleep he went out. He came
back near dawn, soaking in blood.
What's he doing now?
He's making cow sound
ever since he came back.
- What should we do Eslam?
- I don't know.
- Let’s go and see what we can do?
- Let’s go.
- Hello Hassan.
- Hello... Hi...
Hassan?
Hoy Hassan!
Yes, Esmayil is back and
he brought your cow back.
Yes Esmayil is back, here he is.
Hello, uncle Hassan.
I finally found your cow.
You know where she was? She was
pasturating in the valley near Khatonabad!
She's fatter than ever!
Thank god she's fine, Healthy and strong.
Is there something wrong with him, Eslam?
Let’s go in and see what we can do.
Why are you stepping back?
I'm not coming in.
- Why not?
- I can't watch this.
Are you scared? Don't be
It’s just Hassan, our good old Hassan!
Hello, Hassan.
How are you? Are you well?
Hey? Hassan? I'm talking to you!
Are you alright? Hassan?
I'm not Hassan.
Don't say that, Hassan,
you are Hassan.
I'm not Hassan.
I'm his cow.
Don't say that Hassan.
You're Hassan, our old Hassan.
Yes, you're our old Hassan.
I'm not Hassan.
I'm his cow.
Don't say that.
God forbid if Bolouries find out.
They'd come and steal you!
- Yes, they'd steal you.
- They'd cut your head off!
Hassan is standing watch on the roof.
He's looking after me.
Cut it out, for god's sake.
What kind of a cow are you, anyway?
Where's you tail,
where's your horn if you're a cow?
He's right!
What do you have to say to that?
Ok, stop! Calm down!
Ok, alright, just calm down.
Ok, ok Hassan, calm down, calm down.
Oh god, what should we do?
Get it in his head, somehow!
Listen to me.
Yesterday, your wife came to us in panic
and said that your cow was dead.
We threw your cow in the old well.
- Isn't that right, Chief?
- No, it's all true!
If you really were Hassan's cow,
you would have been in the well right now!
And if you're not,
then you're Hassan himself
Yes, I swear to god!
I swear you are Hassan!
You tell him, is this Hassan or cow?
Of course it's Hassan.
It's our old Hassan...
If you don't believe us,
just go look in the old well yourself.
Hassan...
Hassan? The Bolouries are here!
They want to steal me!
They want to through me into the old well!
They want to cut my head!
Hassan!
Come save your cow!
We're not Bolouri, we are not...
I'm Eslam, he's the chief.
That's Saffar's son, and this is Abbas.
We're all from this village, friend.
We're not Bolouri...let’s go...
Do you want to get you anything?
Water...water.
Come in.
- I want to go home.
- But I made lunch.
Here.
- Did you hear that?
- Yes.
I don't know how he will end up
- Why aren't you eating?
- I don't feel hungry.
- Do you want tea?
- No I have to go.
Where to?
I want to go see how everything goes.
Will you be back?
No, I'll go home.
By the way...I told my sister.
About what?
Everything.
After everything is back to normal, she'll
be here to ask for your hand on my behalf.
Which way is it?
Do you know his house?
- Who are they?
- The Bolouries.
- What's going on?
- The Bolouries are here.
I'll fix them.
My sheep...my sheep!
- Why are you shouting?
- They took my sheep!
It's right here!
- You stand watch we'll go in.
- Ok.
- What happened?
- It wasn't his cow, he was there himself!
Get them!
What happened?
What's going on?
- It's nothing, Bolouris had come to steal Hassan!
- What?
- How is Hassan?
- He hasn't touched his food.
Hassan...
- Hello.
Here.
Thank you.
So...Eslam, how is everything?
He ate everything there was in
the cowshed, last night, he ate hey!
How can his stomach take it?
I really don't understand.
I can only wonder!
It sure amazes me!
I don't know how he will end up.
He's getting worse everyday
He has wounds and scars
all over his body now.
Eslam, you know better than any of us,
Think of a solution.
I think...
How about taking him to the city?
What for?
We can take him to the hospital
they might be able to help him.
You mean they can convince him
that he's not a cow?
I don't know.
But they might be able to do something.
What if the hospital doesn't take him?
- Why wouldn't they take him?
- What if they don't?
If Eslam is suggesting it,
It must be a good idea.
Who's going to take him, anyway?
Me, you and Jabbar.
I can't come.
I can't leave my sister by herself.
Alright then, I'll go with them,
Is that alright?
Ok that's fine.
- Hello.
Have you told his wife?
Yes. She's going to stay at our house,
So my sister won't be alone.
That's better, You can't leave
a young woman all alone in the house.
We're here to take Hassan.
Hassan...
Get up, get ready to go.
Come on, Get up.
There you go...Good!
Let's go, Hassan go on.
Hassan? Let's go, get going.
Get moving...
Come here...Get the rope.
Tie him.
Calm down, Easy!
Abbas, tie him.
We can't take him with the cart.
We must drag him to the road...
Pull him.
Eslam? Eslam?
Eslam...
Bolouries..
- Let's gove faster.
- Let's go.
Come on....pull!
Come on guys...Pull!
Come on, come.
Hold on the rope chief and pull hard.
Move it, animal!
Eslam!
Eslam...Catch him!
Hey Eslam? Eslam?
Didn't you go to town with the others?
I did.
Then, Why are you back?
I came to take my cart.
What did you do with Hassan?
Hassan? I'm going to bring him.
So you are not taking him
to the city anymore?
The End.